releases: add 4.0.2 release notes (#2986)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-4.0.2.md

---
title: TiDB 4.0.2 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 4.0.2 Release Notes

Release date: June 30, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.2

## Compatibility Changes

+ TiDB

    - Remove sensitive information in slow query log and statement summary table [#18130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18130)
    - Forbid negative value in the sequence cache [#18103](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18103)
    - Remove tombstone TiKV and TiFlash servers from the `CLUSTER_INFO` table [#17953](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17953)
    - Change diagnostic rule `current-load` to `node-check` [#17660](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17660)

> + PD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ PD

```

## New Features

+ TiDB

    - Support the `MEMORY_QUOTA()` hint in `INSERT` statements [#18101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18101)
    - Support authentication based on TLS certificate SAN field [#17698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17698)
    - Support collation for the `REGEXP()` function [#17581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17581)
    - Support the `sql_select_limit` session and global variable [#17604](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17604)
    - Support splitting the Region for the newly added partition by default [#17665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17665)
    - Support pushing the `IF()`/`BITXOR()`/`BITNEG()`/`JSON_LENGTH()` functions to the TiFlash Coprocessor [#17651](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17651) [#17592](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17592)
    - Support a new aggregate function `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT()` to calculate the approximate result of `COUNT(DISTINCT)` [#18120](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18120)
    - Support collation in TiFlash and enable push collation related functions to TiFlash [#17705](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17705)

>     - Add the `STATUS_ADDRESS` column in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INSPECTION_RESULT` table to indicate the status address of servers [#17695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17695)

Reviewer 2: yes

    - Fix the incorrect error message of privilege check failure when access denied [#17724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17724)
    - Discard the query feedbacks generated from the `DELETE`/`UPDATE` statements [#17843](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17843)
    - Forbid altering `AUTO_RANDOM_BASE` for a table without `AUTO_RANDOM` property [#17828](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17828)
    - Fix the issue that some system tables can not be access when setting `tidb_isolation_read_engines` without `tidb` [#17719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17719)
    - Fix the incorrect result of JSON comparison on large integer and float values [#17717](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17717)
    - Fix the incorrect decimal property for the result of `COUNT()` function [#17704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17704)
    - Fix the incorrect result of `HEX()` function when the type of input parameter is binary string [#17620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17620)
    - Fix returning empty result when querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INSPECTION_SUMMARY` table without filter condition [#17697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17697)

>     - Fix `ALTER USER` with hash string result in rehashed password issue [#17646](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17646)

Reviewer 3: LGTM

    - Fix the incorrect result for `FIELD()` function when the argument contains column [#17562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17562)
    - Fix the occasionally not work issue on `max_execution_time` hint [#17536](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17536)
    - Fix the redundant concurrency information in the result of `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#17350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17350)
    - Fix the incompatible behavior of `%h` on function `STR_TO_DATE` [#17498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17498)
    - Fix the infinite follower/learner retry issue when `tidb_replica_read` is set to `follower` and there is a network partition between the leader and follower/learner [#17443](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17443)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB sends too much pings to PD follower occasionally [#17947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17947)
    - Fix the issue that old versioned range partition table can not be loaded to TiDB 4.0.0 [#17983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17983)

>     - Fix the SQL command timeout issue when multiple Region requests failed at the same time by assigning different `Backoffer` for each Region [#17585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17585)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the SQL statement timeout issue when multiple Region requests fail at the same time by assigning different `Backoffer` for each Region [#17585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17585)
```

>     - Fix the incompatible behavior on parsing datetime delimiters [#17501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17501)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the MySQL incompatible behavior when parsing `DateTime` delimiters [#17501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17501)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV request occasionally send to TiFlash server [#18105](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18105)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV requests are occasionally sent to the TiFlash server [#18105](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18105)
```

+ TiKV

>     - Fix a memory safety problem for status server [#8101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8101)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix a memory safety issue for the status server [#8101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8101)
```

>     - Fix precision lost in json numeric comparison [#8087](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8087)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of lost precision in JSON numeric comparison [#8087](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8087)
```

>     - Fix wrong query slow log [#8050](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8050)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong query slow log [#8050](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8050)
```

>     - Fix a case that a peer can not be removed when its store is isolated during multiple merge process [#8048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8048)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a peer cannot be removed when its store is isolated during multiple merge processes [#8048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8048)
```

>     - Fix `tikv-ctl recover-mvcc` doesn't remove invalid pessimistic locks [#8047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8047)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `tikv-ctl recover-mvcc` does not remove invalid pessimistic locks [#8047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8047)
```

>     - Fix missing titan histogram metrics [#7997](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7997)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that some Titan histogram metrics are missing [#7997](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7997)
```

>     - Fix a problem that TiKV returns `duplicated error` to TiCDC [#7887](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7887)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV returns `duplicated error` to TiCDC [#7887](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7887)
```

+ PD

>     - Add config check for `pd-server.dashboard-address` of PD config [#2517](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2517)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Check the correctness of the `pd-server.dashboard-address` configuration item [#2517](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2517)
```

>     - Fix the issue that PD may panic when setting `store-limit-mode` to `auto` [#2544](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2544)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue of PD when setting `store-limit-mode` to `auto` [#2544](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2544)
```

>     - Fix the issue that hotspot cannot be identified in some cases [#2463](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2463)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that hotspots cannot be identified in some cases [#2463](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2463)
```

>     - Fix the placement rules issue that prevent store changing to tombstone [#2546](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2546)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that Placement Rules prevent the store from changing to `tombstone` in some cases [#2546](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2546)
```

>     - Fix the issue that PD may panic when upgrading from the previous version [#2564](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2564)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue of PD when upgrading from earlier versions in some cases [#2564](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2564)
```

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix the issue that proxy may panic when meet Region not found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the proxy might panic when the `region not found` error occurs
```

>     - Fix the issue that I/O exception thrown in drop table may lead to TiFlash schema sync failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the I/O exception thrown in `drop table` might lead to synchronization failure of TiFlash schema
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.2 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 4.0.2 Release Notes

Release date: June 30, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.2

## Compatibility Changes

+ TiDB

    - Remove sensitive information in the slow query log and the statement summary table [#18130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18130)
    - Forbid negative value in the sequence cache [#18103](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18103)
    - Remove tombstone TiKV and TiFlash stores from the `CLUSTER_INFO` table [#17953](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17953)
    - Change the diagnostic rule from `current-load` to `node-check` [#17660](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17660)

+ PD

    - Persist `store-limit` and remove `store-balance-rate` [#2557](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2557)

> 
> ## New Features
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

## New Changes

- By default, TiDB and TiDB Dashboard share usage details with PingCAP to help understand how to improve the product [#18180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18180). For details that get shared and how to opt out of collection, see [Telemetry](/telemetry.md) documentation.

## New Features

```

@TomShawn PTAL, thanks!

Reviewer: @uglyengineer PTAL

    - Add the `tidb_slow_log_masking` global variable to control whether to desensitize the queries in slow query log [#17694](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17694)
    - Add a diagnostic rule in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INSPECTION_RESULT` table for the `storage.block-cache.capacity` TiKV configuration item [#17671](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17671)
    - Add the `BACKUP` and `RESTORE` SQL statements to back up and restore data [#15274](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15274)

+ TiKV

    - Add `encryption-meta` command for TiKV Control [#8103](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8103)
    - Add a perf context metric for `RocksDB::WriteImpl` [#7991](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7991)

+ PD

    - Support the operator to fail fast when trying to remove a leader peer [#2551](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2551)
    - Set a suitable default store limit for TiFlash stores [#2559](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2559)

+ TiFlash

    - Support new aggregation function `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT` in Coprocessor

>     - Enable rough set filter feature by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Enable the `rough set filter` feature by default
```

    - Enable TiFlash to run on the ARM architecture
    - Support pushing down the `JSON_LENGTH` function in Coprocessor

+ Tools

    - TiCDC

>         - Support for migrating sub-tasks to new captures [#665](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/665)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support migrating sub-tasks to new `capture`s [#665](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/665)
```

>         - Add a command to delete CDC GC TTL [#652](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/652)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Add a `cli` command to delete the TiCDC GC TTL [#652](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/652)
```

+ TiDB

    - Reduce the query latency caused by the Golang memory allocation when CM-Sketch consumes too much memory [#17545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17545)
    - Reduce the QPS recovery duration of a cluster when a TiKV server is in the failure recovery process [#17681](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17681)
    - Support pushing aggregate functions to TiKV/TiFlash Coprocessor on partition tables [#17655](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17655)
    - Improve the accuracy of row count estimation for index equal conditions [#17611](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17611)

+ TiKV

    - Improve the PD client panic log [#8093](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8093)
    - Add back the `process_cpu_seconds_total` and `process_start_time_seconds` monitoring metrics [#8029](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8029)

+ TiFlash

    - Improve backward compatibility when upgrading from an older version [#786](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/786)
    - Reduce memory consumption of delta index [#787](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/787)
    - Use the more efficient update algorithm for delta index [#794](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/794)

+ Tools

>     - BR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Backup & Restore (BR)
```

    - Discard the query feedbacks generated from the `DELETE`/`UPDATE` statement [#17843](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17843)
    - Forbid altering `AUTO_RANDOM_BASE` for a table without `AUTO_RANDOM` property [#17828](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17828)
    - Fix the issue that some system tables cannot be accessed when setting the value of `tidb_isolation_read_engines` without `tidb` [#17719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17719)
    - Fix the inaccurate result of JSON comparison on large integers and float values [#17717](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17717)
    - Fix the incorrect decimal property for the result of the `COUNT()` function [#17704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17704)
    - Fix the incorrect result of the `HEX()` function when the type of input is the binary string [#17620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17620)
    - Fix the issue that an empty result is returned when querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INSPECTION_SUMMARY` table without filter condition [#17697](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17697)

>     - Fix the issue that using the hashed password in `ALTER USER` might cause error [#17646](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17646)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the hashed password used by the `ALTER USER` statement to update user information is unexpected [#17646](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17646)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.2 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 4.0.2 Release Notes

> Release date: June 30, 2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: July 1, 2020
```

    - Add the `PLAN_IN_CACHE` and `PLAN_CACHE_HITS` columns in the `PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA.EVENTS_STATEMENTS_SUMMARY_BY_DIGEST` table to indicate the plan cache usage of SQL statements [#17493](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17493)
    - Add the `enable-collect-execution-info` configuration item and the `tidb_enable_collect_execution_info` session variable to control whether to collect execution information of each operator and record the information in the slow query log [#18073](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18073) [#18072](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18072)
    - Add the `tidb_slow_log_masking` global variable to control whether to desensitize the queries in slow query log [#17694](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17694)
    - Add a diagnostic rule in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INSPECTION_RESULT` table for the `storage.block-cache.capacity` TiKV configuration item [#17671](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17671)
    - Add the `BACKUP` and `RESTORE` SQL statements to back up and restore data [#15274](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/15274)

+ TiKV

>     - Add `encryption-meta` command for TiKV Control [#8103](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8103)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add the `encryption-meta` command for TiKV Control [#8103](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8103)
```
